whenever a transition occurs like like
we had one about two years ago in terms
of i/o from USB to USB and firewire that
always causes some heartache for
customers for developers because you've
got to do some work for Apple because we
have to do all this work to to get it
out there that also gives rise to great
opportunities and and we think that the
people who really grab this on are the
ones that are ventually successful so
here's again here again Apple is
presenting you with another opportunity
to write drivers from Mac os10 because
all the customers that now start
upgrading to Mac os10 in the next year
are going to need peripherals with the
appropriate drivers to make sure that it
works and I think the people the
developers that really give them these
drivers will be the one eventually that
come out on top so we're presenting you
with an opportunity here to get into
details of Mac OS 10 and writing drivers
by the way this session is entirely
devoted to writing ten drivers I'd like
to welcome William Cullen William is the
tech lead for mac OS 10 and in fact he's
the one who's been doing all this hard
work to make sure that can fire wire in
BP for works really well well thanks
Mike good afternoon I'm going to be
talking to you about as a set how to
write drivers for 0 sin Phi Y drivers
I'm also want to go briefly what is in
BP for what's in the CD that that you
have now what will be in the air is 10
public beta let me relieve that so that
falls it's talking to you a bit about
the things that we haven't done yet the
things aren't in PP for and give you
some pointers to the kind of things that
might change in the future really want
to make sure that you have the basic
idea of how you're going to start
writing firewire drivers and echo x10
explain briefly how driver matching
works so we can make sure that that your
driver gets loaded for your device not
for some else's device and start running
and do the right things I'm also showing
you here where were you able to find the
SDK that isn't actually you don't have
an XP k ready for you yet but if you
check this URL will be sure to point out
where you can get it and of course
really important the fire code is open
source it's part of Darwin if you get
the right device driver please sign up
for Darwin get get the source use the
source Luke it's a lot easier if you can
see how we're doing things see how you
should do things as well ok so how does
how things work the firewire drivers in
oh it's 10 the use iokit I based the
code on the OS 9 architecture this lead
to call the source code over to 10 then
converted it to fit into I ok it's where
did you see pops class which made a lot
of things much easier for me in d before
it's implemented as a set of kernel
extensions that are loaded up when a
driver needs to fire wire services
there's three main kernel extensions for
fire in DP for the i/o flywire family
docx this is the core of firewire it's
where it's the codifies all the basic
services of fire hardware independent
for everything then we have two drivers
for the two different types of flight
controller chips that we've used at
Apple in our various computers
Apple Inc X is the driver for the texas
instruments pti links controller chip
that's the controller chip is used in
the gloom white 33 and also in the pci
pci apple cart that we also i think
still sell kind of obsolete but
available I think finally Apple SW Oh
XVI the driver for the PCI ohci file I
standard all our current machines that
have firewire built in they're all using
versions of its open standard for this
driver is for all the current machine
okay so so what's in DP for driver
matching and loading is all done mouse
for x y devices so if you if you have a
driver for your device and use with me
correctly this should hold on i'll do
yet let's hope you'll be freaking out to
be fork and load drivers the right
devices get and running so the core
services for the firewire are pretty
nearly complete you can do most of the
things you need to do is file ir of
sending packages heating packets
allocating address spaces which what the
writers on the bar spending our fast
things are what the bus topology is all
that kind of useful stuff that you need
to do the apple inc's driver is complete
it handles everything that i believe it
needs to handle I probably ought to the
bugs but shows that the skylight yoicks
see I controller is not too far along
you exploded on a bit later newer new
machines as the asynchronous packet
handling is all complete but the
isochronous like at handling isn't done
yet
which kind of means you can't do pv
development example using a no api
controller so you need to get a link
cards apps were doing that we also threw
in a prototype for file itís driver that
we wrote to make sure that the core
services have all been right right thing
and sure we had all these interaction
with our kits and the file system all
sorted out and done correctly well quite
sure whether we should be shipping a
generic destroyer in the future we put
anybody before because long have any
other drivers so we're going to have so
if you have opinions about that perhaps
you give feedback to JS file i/o at
apple com whether we should have a
driver tonight driver or just do what we
didn't know it's nine of leaving the
driver for each discipline it's accurate
to do themselves based on code we
provide of them the bossing MVP
floorings well might envy people we
don't have any documentation yet written
for for the swat flies in DB for sort of
a 10 we don't even have very good header
documentation yet so that's kind of
something that bear in mind again sign
up sort of the darwin get the people
source and you can figure out what we're
doing
for the public visa of course we will be
adding most of the things that you'd
expect risk for complete information
will be splitting apart the described
earlier oath into the SUV sync services
that's generic for a few devices and a
separate hardest driver or leave it out
completely depending on how we decide to
do that that's in apps something oh it's
9 has you have separate service
efficiency services for all the devices
that use that standard we're also after
I the SVP services that are used by DV
camcorders an mram kind of stuff will be
of course providing a DV driver just as
you do in micro s9 and also protocol
drive driver support of lysis started
working on fire hours and quite sure
what is what protocol drivers were so I
didn't instrument of the first it's a
fini the thing you remember about
firewire is that fire is the bus it's a
peer-to-peer you can connect tipple
Macintoshes together and they can talk
to each other protocol drivers a way of
setting things up so each Mac knows what
services other max would provide it for
providing because they've had a driver
loaded to match them tort suits I'm also
going to be improving the I should
really take config Ron services
selectmen CSR because that's what they
call them a current source code services
to read the configuration rom from a
device services to add stuff to the
macintosh config rom for other devices
to read so that they know what services
the max can do for them
we'll also be adding booting from fire
dis drive that's one of the things that
isn't in 10 you have a destroyer but we
can't boot from it and build anessa
caves will document it fun is looking a
bit beyond the Republic visa and I'm
line getting a bit bit vague enough we
want to provide a DC services for in the
same way that we do festively too
because in the past I've only being
camcorders that seeded the ABC News ABC
protocol in the future camcorders again
Phil but also in LAN audio devices and
AV hard disk now all those three
different kind of devices they all a
based on the ABC standards so we want to
provide services to do that so you can
then build on for double devices we're
going to try em lam support of course if
you so we'll demo yesterday that looks
pretty exciting the huge bandwidth
available for audio hundreds of channels
for the pro guys it's a straight to them
and it's also going to be nice for home
home theater stuff it's less able is
great power management also is not be
before and probably won't be in the
public Peter either really that's most
important for powerbook that like to
control tower and all our machine so
when is fire fire lights why our drivers
fitting for the whole big picture of Mac
OS 10 well is just a little tiny box
down in the bottom corner underneath
iokit notice that there's a dotted line
it goes across and then up separating
the maternal and I okay it from rest of
the colonel that little right hand side
kind of the upper side
implies that a an adequate driver can
actually get provide services straits
applications that can go through BS e or
networking or the file system if that
makes sense for your kind of device
which is often the case for fly devices
because a lot of the really fun stuff
camcorders again cameras and lan and so
on are the kind of things that good
old-fashioned unix isn't retail be
interested in and the colonel just
doesn't honor he's know about it put
them up into application okay so i want
to go so here is show you how i like it
goes through the process of getting a
driver running when your device is
connected to the mac initially when the
machine starts up i hope it will look to
all the hardware that's on the nap
motherboard and it'll find a file a
controller of some kind it allowed to be
the apple links when we say the links
for ppi controller or the one of many
ohci controllers so the air cute
matching system will then lowes
hyperlinks or ohci as appropriate Apple
Inc's and ohci are subclasses of hi-fi
our controller which remember is the
into the corrals the fire services
system that sells a subclass from I'll
file but I have firewire bus which is a
great abstract view of the fire so first
thing happens you plug your device in
that will cause a battery set will go
and scan the bus find that there's a
vise sword is a device now and
we like it then create a standard
objects for communicating with firewire
devices which week allow so I device
pretty logical it in turn will then look
at the device read it's configs rom and
see what unit directories are in the
wrong the unit directories aware
firewire devices will be store
information on what kind of device it is
who makes this kind of information that
you need so for each unit directory that
we find the file I device object finds
in the device we create the file I unit
object again kind of objects as we
create to represent the unit directory
now who gets kind of more interesting
yeah okay matching system now looks at
the entries in the units directory
figures out what kind of unit it is and
a little bit of luck it's a device that
fits a driver's been installed for an
out point will load up your driver
attach it to the firewire unit and then
your drivers can start running talk to
the device and got it does its thing for
example if it was a hard disk your
driver would then have to tell the aisle
kits file system services but it's a
hard disk partitions and so on and the
file system will then pick up to it and
start reading writing sexist I was going
to go into my feet about how fast this
entitilitus it works there's a session
tomorrow that will really go into that
and great detail
okay Doug another device in of course we
create another file I device object at
that one mouth again we look unit
director ease and create a unit by unit
objects three threats even fine perhaps
you find tuna directories because it's
some kind of multifunctional device we
can actually think of an example of one
except for a Macintosh Maddox automatic
Macintosh she had several protocol
drivers lowliest perhaps em LAN driver
maybe an IP driver then they would have
unit directory speak to those protocol
drivers and other max on the Nets work
on the bus feeding that max rom would
create a unit object for each of those
units so that the right device trailer
can be matched up with each unit I've
got one in grey dimming because we're
going to concentrate on one side again
the appropriate driver is found loaded
starts running now suppose this is a
device that doesn't communicate with the
rest of the colonel perhaps it's a
camcorder it's a scanner it's a printer
something that applications whether the
top when you want to talk to so that's
the colonel isn't want to talk to I ok
provides services for applications
outside the terminal you get notified of
kinds of devices that they're interested
in appearing inside the colonel and when
they see that they can then go and find
a core foundation plug in to represent
that device outside the colonel the plug
in then have to ask the unit driver
inside the colonel to create what we
call our user client which is a internal
object that provides services to get
cross the colonel boundary between
the plugin outside the terminal and unit
driver inside the colonel so I just
highlighted the pieces that you would
need to write for two kinds of devices
on the right something like a hard disk
it's pretty straightforward you write a
device driver inside the colonel gets
loaded it talks the file system and
essentially you have one object to worry
about if you're doing a device the right
size for a device that you'd like to
ride direct access to applications
outside the colonel I think standing
thinking for you need to do a little bit
more work you need to write your
internal right driver you also need to
write piece of extra code so you
declined to cross the colonel boundary
and you almost certainly want to write a
coronation plug-in outside the kernel
for any application that wants to talk
to your device to go through you
probably shouldn't directly you could
directly from applications go to the
user climb inside the colonel but its
architectural form is certainly going to
be better for you and for everybody to
have a plug-in a plenty of the life
rather than building people applications
one thing that we have to do for the
public pizza that I invention was make
its left hand side threes three-stage
seeing a little easier by providing our
own unit driver and user client inside
the kernel that you can plug in to say i
want the standard one I don't know
anything I mean it's certainly any
special high-performance communication I
can stick with the service we provide
which should be pretty fast anyway I
think absolutely fine for scanners
printers
probably m lambda Michael's as well
maybe okay so as I mentioned earlier the
firewire controller is the heart of the
firewire family it does most of the
hardware independent works that it needs
to be done to get far why are up and
running and get your device is going be
able talk two devices much light as you
have these other devices there are bus
management it does address space
management inside the Mac that's where
you have you want to have firewire
addresses inside the map your device can
talk to to send status kind of things of
course glad I controller provides
methods for transmitting and receiving
packets those asynchronous am I talk
honest if you're writing a protocol
driver where you're making the max
perform a service for people other
devices on the bus then your critical
driver will match the flight controller
because that'll that's what provides
services it needs to change the update
see macintosh rom and Alex address space
as I mentioned earlier Apple Inc's and I
oh wo XVI varies the harbor drivers
access the Macintosh Hardware there are
subclasses of Iowa i/o controller that
implements the actual hardware
registered actually necessary to send
packets see transmits packets handling
truck silhouette hardware stuff
biostar why device 1 the device in the
bar this is the object that handles some
of the fiddly bits about firewire that
we really really don't want to have to
bother with it tracks the note idea of
your device and whence the bus reset and
noo tidies of writers can change but you
still have the same file I device to
talk to it'll just and certainly no
thats note ideas changed when it sends a
pectus these packets over the bus for
matching of flour why device if your
device driver wants to do that we only
provide two very basic pieces
information the vendor ID of the device
and the goo is the globally unique ID of
the device neither of those really are
terribly useful for matching their
either by the general vendor ID and
every device to make whatever kind of
videos can have the same vendor ID oh
it's incredibly specific utu ideas let
me a driver for that one device an
entire universe which probably isn't
sells a useful hello there could be uses
there was a question in eric erickson JS
presentation yesterday where some of our
thing about i have having tender 10
Macintoshes network tech together with a
firewire and he had a firewire hard
disks that he wanted 20 mount on one
lakh now one way of doing that at least
now it's 10 might be to use the gilead
of the disk drive and have a driver that
only matches that one disk drives and
have that driver only on one of the
Macintoshes the others will match the
drives who's got the wrong do et tu ID
the max that you want to use the drive
will match it because it has like dat
but that's pretty esoteric really the
main job of the firewire device object
is to
look at the device was wrong pick out
all unit director ease and create
publish I love sci-fi our units creature
those direct directories for dry it your
own drivers to match arm so I Oh fire
unit said one penis rectory and device
from typically there will only be one
you know directory and the rights wrong
but the spec allows for and we allow
them all for flower unit we provide much
more useful matching a driver can match
on the unit's spec ID unit software
version and also the vendor ID in tu ID
which we going to brought up from the
file I device is the provider for most
flywire drivers for devices since it has
the information on what kind of protocol
the Unitec ID in software versions that
the device can handle YY device to fly
our unit really are only different in
how they are where they fit in the IOC
hierarchy and in the matching
information the boats rise from iOS
firewire knob which provides methods for
all things you want to do with the
device of sending packets to it is he
packing it we see packets from it and so
so
can i hack it you have what's
essentially likes the name registry in
mac OS 9 but a lot more sophisticated
and I've had fun taking bunch of that
for a Flywire the main Eric its service
claim we call it is the part of the
iokit registry issues the matching so
all the objects that I create that can
be involved in matching are in that part
of the packet registry for the matching
functions of latakia to work on so those
are I apply our controller for protocol
drivers I will file I device hapless a
specific device drivers I'll fly our
unit for most device drivers I also
implemented a second plane in registry
which I use to keep track of the bus
topology of firewire bus in other words
which device is connected with other
device physically by the cable which is
useful for Sigma outlets speed you can
send to it as a slow device the
community fast devices then rust the fly
our plane might be ways look to check us
out happening and maybe you look user if
you want to so this is only intended to
represent the topology of the network
and not the functionality for services
are provided it only has the aisle
flywire controller objects the
so I device effect essentially was my
castle itself and all the other devices
that have been found on it are on the
bar so now I'd like to to show you the
registry in those ten in action first
I'm going to bring up a very useful
application that we having did before
call the IRS tree Explorer it's a very
simple application to shows you what's
in the registry when you when it starts
up its our top showing the service plane
I'm going to switch the plane I'm going
to display to the firewire plane so that
we can see what the bus looks like right
now has nothing connected to the mat
right now so on a front side we see
what's available there's the apple
flower LTI objects the max only own
internal hardware and then there's four
other objects the registry service I we
don't know they're always there and
explain see ohci driver seemed you have
a whole bunch of properties being
displayed down here I'll just move it
you can see if the Creta what's going on
we have the node ID has a neck massage
and it tells us it's a number this
application is built with Coco it was
stunning what's funny over it was sudden
it's very simple application one of the
things that we didn't do was show
numbers with hex which probably makes
something a little clearer we just shows
normal decimal representations
also keep in the registry for people to
look at the self ID packets that that
nose went out at the last bus reset
which you might you can use to that look
at these speed as the device have fee
the rom of advice Dom normal escapes
course of the neck and such have here
some showing bit of the I ok it's
matching since the ohci controller is a
pci device its provider class the thing
that it talks do to talk with hardware
is I know pci device please kind of
where you expect here I see I've match
on pci class of 00 10 which i guess is
is the right thing for lexi i buy more
information about what kernel extensions
this driver is loaded from let it from
the apples swhc I extension what is
more more matching information it's all
a lot of stuff here for seeing how your
device got matched is a good one to
check week after the objects will be
expects no power oops yo a TI now I pick
the delights in we're going to go and
look and try and find the right driver
for this I just want to just my BP
showing you yes
this is the XML files being displayed by
the XML browser for our prototype ftp to
this driver as a root property the date
when we last looked on it the module
said it is let's say to the file it
lives in it's a it's a MACO binary all
executables loaded into the kernel
hearty knockos don't support PSN inside
the colonel here the drivers specifying
that it needs to serve with firewire
services to run we just going to back
backwards urls to keep names unique calm
to apple pie our family the device drive
a lot to use our spiral family finally
the personality of the driver it is
serial matching information was used to
load the correct driver specifies what
class should be created when it's device
is detected on the bus io swe ftp to HD
drive it's a CD to or dis right io
imports specifies what kind of objects
the driver needs to directly talk to it
needs socks to the smile our units to
communicate if a score for matching so
if we have several drivers that all
match use a probe score glide over the
highest protocol with one will get
loaded in use finally
the two pieces of information that we're
going to matching this driver the unit's
tech ID from the unit directory and the
unit software version from the indirect
tree okay so close that now I'll get in
ok
this dialog pops up it's being cops up
by legacy Explorer application you
wouldn't normally see it whatever to
explore our application is done is doing
is its author allocate to tell it
anytime anything changes in the adequate
registry and where does it asked me if I
so I want to see this update sure I want
to see what what's changed now we're
still looking at the firewire registry
plane you now house file as I file I
devices of these roots of the bus so
those guys being route now little arrow
on the right shows that we can if over
and see what elected to these guys have
a trysting feature they actually have a
second fire in size and for some reason
that doesn't have a link doesn't have a
row i can read so i represent that
simply by an io registry entry and i
just show what little information I have
on that which is the fire information
node ID and the speed of device and the
self ID packet and what's down the end
we have the HCI driver again so we're
smell along the route because this guy's
route 11 it back to finding scenic drive
got mounted pretty encouraging and if i
switch to the service plane
track down to
the firewire stuff instead of claims
Apple swhc I will always be the first
thing of the file airplane because it
colliding services it's everybody else
connected to it in the service plane is
the flight of ice cream fighting the
disk drive so I devices created fire
units for the one unit directory inside
the device I ok has looked at the unit
spec ID in it software version good
outlet to the extensions and so did the
one we wanted the HD drive driver just
driver for this guy who's then done the
work acting up to this file system in
this case that means creating this
little driving up objects banner I oh
actually drive objects let me have a
media objects it's kind of goes on for a
long time partition skiing couple of
partitions you got a partition others
drive there's a lot of objects for the
file system again she needs no bad stuff
is a talk tomorrow on that finally let's
dismount this
again okay the which application is
going to change and now if i mix back
down to flower again drivers feel
connected things look pretty much the
same so far but since the unmounted the
disk from the file system the file
system objects have all been cleaned up
and run away see there's no right hand
arrows who cares no more higher level
devices in the registry anymore we
unplug this it alone clean up the rest
of the IQ
I'm clean now that's just having the one
flower OPI device driver waiting for
selected to appear that surface if we a
pixel my demonstration of hierarchy
registry see how it works a file I fit
into that how your drivers will fit in
as well now i've put about the objects
get created to represent how everything
fits fitted together to your things you
can talk to to torture device how do you
actually do things how do you send
packets to see packets sorting a book
about in the similar way to how things
are done in micro x line I have a
objects call the i/o SW come on this is
an absolute abject representing issuing
a command to the flight hardware the
base object handles all the threads
blocking scheduling completion call back
stuff that's needed we'll handle SMP in
the future should we do such a thing I
have loads of dr classes from this base
class to do interesting flywire things
you can do to make subclasses of
ayothaya i come on are they think come
on for sending and receiving suspending
a synchronous asynchronous packets that
over the bar and but come on for doing
buck management stuff like allocating
local addresses setting who zoo route is
those sort of functions that of buff
wide
other important objects that I have is
for doing isochronous transfers 3
isochronous packets are transferred over
fly wire is to the sort of separate from
devices there's channel that suck in
those packets sent over so I have an
object represent a channel that's been
used for communicating have one for each
of darkness channels being allocated its
job is to go to expand which that
channel has been configured to use make
sure that after bus reset all the right
register reads and writes locks are done
to reserve the bandwidth again offer but
reset also to handle what happens if the
channel can't be reallocated notify
everybody who registered interest in
that channel what channel is in for
things that are using the channel these
other obscure object call the
isochronous Paul there's a port for the
transmitter on the channel and one or
more for every every everything that's
listings that channel each second of
channel when you you create a channel in
you crave sport looks like you give the
ports to the channel and then once
travel being configured with who's
talking who's listening you can ankle
methods in the channel to start and stop
transmitting and it'll call each port
that's configured to use it to tell that
port stop listening stop spending and
stuff for that
if you are using isochronous transfers
you'll need to find a subclass to this
object that knows how to tell your
device to start missing stop listening
start transmitting sub transmitting
maybe change the date distinct same
weather and of course you also need to
create if the Macintosh is going to be
taking partners chuckling at Stanford
you also need to create a local effects
on a support to represent the data
coming in and going out for the
Macintosh this is the object that you
give a DPL program just the same
detailed programs as you may written
already in mac OS 9 this object looks
after those for you it compiles them
feeding into the hardware start some
stocks them i keeps hardware for them
the nice thing about dcl is that it
tells us what data is going to be
transferred we can we compile it and you
know which tasks the detail Paragon came
from so we can pick up further on up the
hardware and configure the colonel
virtual memory system so that the data
flowing in and out over the bus go
straight to your applications it doesn't
have to go into the kernel and get
copied out there's lots of interrupts
from passing about you get there
displayed some weights right started to
where it belongs without any interaction
from the cpu door with the flight
controller hardware which is very
important for keeping up Peter rates on
high speed devices like camcorders
so that was 10 and the other terrifying
single the colonel the colonel boundary
necklace mine he has the application
heat to read application in the system
heat for kind of common stuff like slice
drivers and they were distinct but not
great of thing Colonel Colonel
boundaries a bit like that better vision
between application system heat but it's
much more rigidly enforced boundary
really need to be aware of it make sure
you know how you're going to get data
across that boundary ideally use
services inc resides don't have to worry
about too much but if you doing
interesting things you may need to
consider that if you remember going
right back noticing two different vices
think logged in should your device using
the kernel extensions to control your
device can you just do all your work
outside of the colonel to kind of figure
out the answer to that question you want
to consider four main points about what
your driver does what your patients
expect to use the drivers do because
performance you need it's a driver used
by the colonel example hadas if you want
your hardest to get max about a file
system which is in the colonel then you
need two divided a kernel driver to
touch the fastest and otherwise you just
don't get mounted if your drive is going
to be used simultaneously by many
applications of tasks running in the
system then it might make sense to put
it in the kernel to allow these differ
applications to all access at the same
time if you have maybe they use for many
applications at different times like a
printer print all the same time then
that would be something that you would
put out of the colonel even though a
different times when applications music
but these duffield hardware you're
driving me access to the harbor in
trucks in the back that's the firewire I
think I've solutely can be knows because
we control of the Flywire hardware
because if you would drive if you're
writing a the driver for a pci card from
at the fitting into the firewire system
then that would have to be a colonel
extension because it's used by the
Kurama when it's going to handle primary
interrupts finally you need to
synchronize between several applications
that are running at the same time an
example would be audio if you're mixing
several audio channels together from
different applications when you've all
to come out together you may need to do
stuff in the kernel to make sure that
everything is scheduled correctly there
are some examples of weddings belong a
storage disk drive they belong on the
colonel yes right kernel driver scanner
sprinters don't belong in the kernel you
really want to do it yes plugin will
certainly provide ftp to services out
its Colonel CTU's and I'm pretty
confident we be providing even lower
level flies access few outside the
colonel so you can just stay out how the
colonel and afterwards I kernel
extensions and if thats singing a kind
of device a CD RS you see you recording
machines when it's being a CD drive you
just a normal CD in it you want to be in
the kernel so that you can fit into the
file system and your users can see
what's in that CD writer make sure it's
the right CD the other hand when you're
recording a CD your you feel like some
let's look like you should be outside
the colonel you have one application
writing a city at a time you don't want
the fastest and find the mountain CD as
you write satyam that would
be pretty pretty terrible so you looks
like you for you end up with two drivers
the kernel driver for mounting regular
corded CDs and use a driver for a places
like toast to talk to recording which
means you have to worry about sharing
make sure that two drivers don't
conflict finally high performance
isochronous bass clan critical
applications like camcorders we have a
prototype for DV camcorder driver that
didn't quite make it easy for which is
currently implemented inside the colonel
we didn't the Colonel's who we knew it
works in the colonel but it wouldn't be
nice to have that nodding the Colonel's
because again only one application using
the camcorder at a time things on the
colonel owner has very application and
i'm pretty confident that using dcl we
can get enough data rates through we
don't really need to be in the colonel
however lapse something I I need to
verify safe to conclude fire in BP for
is working progress it's not finished
but there's a lot of functionality there
you can do plenty of stuff you can
certainly write slightest driver because
we manage to do that open source get the
source the Darwin site doesn't actually
have the ftp to just drive source on it
at the moment so i think we'll kind of
saw that outcomes help you there the
firewire family code definitely is all
where I checked earlier this week keep
in our out on our webpage see how we're
getting on with stuff I'm sure you'll be
updating as time goes on remember the
architecture is like mac OS 9 supply oh
I
it's not the same you do have to change
a code but you shouldn't need to
redesign fundamentally how your driver
works if you have a driver that's sort
of follow the right no its nine slides
rules you should find that you just go
through your code look at cause you're
making two to the Firefly oh I 09 move
over to equivalent cause and 10 and
things should be all work that's works
for me if it'll work for you too of
course flower Britain iokit and my code
in C++ which means that call my objects
that at least that Harley driver needs
to be in C++ so that you can call my
code so it doesn't mean to say that you
have to convert all you have big company
driver but about all of the extra seats
people to see first class you only need
to convert the pieces that interact with
I ok the Clio get CM people's club
actually work together quite well
finally be aware of the colonel boundary
if you're playing fast and loose from
the system meeting application heat your
driver and the applications that talk to
your driver you're going to have to do
bit more work you know it's 10 to get
across the colonel boundary
you